.. _qcfc:

``qcfc``
=========

``qcfc`` computes benchmark measures for a functional connectivity processing stream. Measures
include (i) QC-FC correlations of functional connections with motion (number and fraction of
related edges and absolute median correlation), (ii) distance-dependence of residual motion
artefact, (iii) an estimate of the degrees of freedom lost through denoising procedures, and (iv)
voxelwise activation timeseries plots for a set of example subjects. ``qcfc`` is divided into
subject-level and group-level modules. The subject-level module collates subject-level estimates of
data quality and produces the voxelwise plot, while the group-level module computes QC-FC
correlations and distance-dependence.

``qcfc_atlas``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Brain atlas or parcellation.*

Contains a comma-separated list of the names of the atlases over which QC-FC correlations should be
computed. The atlases should correspond to valid paths in ``$XCPEDIR/atlas`` or another appropriate
``$BRAINATLAS`` directory. All atlases listed here must be run through the ``fcon`` module before
they can be used here.::

  # Use the Power 264-sphere parcellation only
  qcfc_atlas[cxt]=power264

  # Use both the Power 264 atlas and the Gordon atlas
  qcfc_atlas[cxt]=power264,gordon

  # Use the 400-node version of the Schaefer atlas
  qcfc_atlas[cxt]=schaefer400

  # Use all available resolutions of the Schaefer atlas
  qcfc_atlas[cxt]=schaefer

  # Use all available atlases
  qcfc_atlas[cxt]=all

``qcfc_sig``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Correction for multiple comparisons.*

Because QC-RSFC correlations are computed at every edge in each graph, the chance of
non-significant results being falsely reported as significant is elevated in proportion to the
number of edges. The risk of false positives can be reduced by taking into account the number of
comparisons being made and applying a correction to the reported p-values. Correction for multiple
comparisons can be based either on the Bonferroni correction (strictest) or on the false discovery
rate.::

  # Use the false discovery rate
  qcfc_sig[cxt]=fdr

  # Use Bonferroni correction
  qcfc_sig[cxt]=bonferroni

  # No correction for multiple comparisons
  qcfc_sig[cxt]=none

``qcfc_custom``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*Custom time series for plot.*

When the ``qcfc`` module produces a voxelwise time series plot for each subject (Power, 2017), by
default it also plots framewise motion estimates and DVARS for reference. These default plots can
be supplemented with custom time series provided by the user. For instance, if task-constrained
connectivity is being computed, it could be useful to include a plot the framewise task model.
``qcfc_custom`` should be formatted as ``<name of time series>:<path to 1D file containing time
series>:<threshold for acceptable quality>``, using the colon as delimiter. If a threshold is not
appropriate for the current time series, then format as ``<name of time series>:<path to 1D file
containing time series>``.::

  # No custom time series
  qcfc_custom[cxt]=

  # Plot a framewise task model
  qcfc_custom[cxt]=task:/path/to/task/estimate.1D

  # Plot a framewise task model specified in the cohort variable tstask
  qcfc_custom[cxt]=task:${tstask[sub]}

  # Separately plot two different task models
  qcfc_custom[cxt]=task1:${tstask1[sub]},task2:${tstask2[sub]}

``qcfc_confmat`` and ``qcfc_conformula``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*QC-FC: Covariates and model.*

When QC-RSFC correlations (motion-connectivity correlations) are computed, any covariates specified
here will be included in the model. This can help to disentangle the effects of motion from those
of variables that are often related to motion, such as age and sex.

The covariates file (``qcfc_confmat``) should be formatted as a ``.csv`` file that includes a
header specifying variable names. Each subject's identifying variables (fields in the main cohort
file that do not correspond to images or files) should be included, as should covariate values for
each subject. Fields should be comma-separated. An example is provided below. The covariate model
(``qcfc_conformula``) should be formatted as a valid R formula. Any categorical variables (e.g.,
diagnosis) should be specified as a factor. It is not necessary to specify the inclusion of subject
motion in the model; motion will always be included.::

  # No covariates
  qcfc_confmat[cxt]=
  qcfc_conformula[cxt]=

  # Use age and diagnosis as covariates
  qcfc_confmat[cxt]=/path/to/covariates/file.csv
  qcfc_conformula[cxt]=age+factor(diagnosis)

Example covariates file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The contents of an example covariates file are provided here. Any identifier columns present in the
cohort file must also be present in the covariates file (here, ``id0`` and ``id1``). Remaining
columns in the::

  id0,id1,age,sex
  ACC,001,217,0
  ACC,002,238,1
  ACC,003,238,1
  DSQ,001,154,0
  CAT,001,176,1

``qcfc_rerun``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ordinarily, each module will detect whether a particular analysis has run to completion before
beginning it. If re-running is disabled, then the module will immediately skip to the next stage of
analysis. Otherwise, any completed analyses will be repeated.If you change the run parameters, you
should rerun any modules downstream of the change.::

  # Skip processing steps if the pipeline detects the expected output
  qcfc_rerun[cxt]=0

  # Repeat all processing steps
  qcfc_rerun[cxt]=1

``qcfc_cleanup``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Modules often produce numerous intermediate temporary files and images during the course of an
analysis. In many cases, these temporary files are undesirable and unnecessarily consume disk
space. If cleanup is enabled, any files stamped as temporary will be deleted when a module
successfully runs to completion. If a module fails to detect the output that it expects, then
temporary files will be retained to facilitate error diagnosis.::

  # Remove temporary files
  qcfc_cleanup[cxt]=1

  # Retain temporary files
  qcfc_cleanup[cxt]=0

``Expected output``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The main output of ``qcfc`` are::
 - prefix_depthMap.nii.gz # layer of tissue segmentattion with depth values
 - prefix_dvars*.1D # dvars obtained from residualised bold image
 - prefix_tdof.txt # number of temporal degree of freedom lost
 - prefix_voxts.png  # graphical summary of quality assessment measures
 - prefix_motionDVCorr.txt # corerelation between dvars and rms ( before regression)

